README.md, before:


# Pi Axera SD Interactive Explorer

Interactive web interface for exploring and interacting with the Pi Axera Stable Diffusion API.

## Prerequisites

This application requires a running instance of the Pi Axera SD Image Generator Service to function. The service provides the backend API for image generation and interrogation.

- **Service Repository**: [https://github.com/gregm123456/sd1.5-lcm.axera](https://github.com/gregm123456/sd1.5-lcm.axera)
- **Service Documentation**: [pi_axera_sd_service](https://github.com/gregm123456/sd1.5-lcm.axera/tree/master/pi_axera_sd_service)

Please follow the installation and setup instructions in the service's README to deploy the service on compatible hardware (e.g., Raspberry Pi with Axera AX650N). The service typically runs on port 5000.

Once the service is running, configure the API Base URL in the application (default: `http://m5:5000` for a device named 'm5').

## Setup

1. **Create the virtual environment (if it doesn't exist):**
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   ```

2. **Activate the virtual environment:**
   ```bash
   source .venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Run the application:**
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

5. **Open the provided URL** (usually `http://127.0.0.1:7860`) in your browser.

---

## Features

- **Image Generation**
  - Supports both **txt2img** and **img2img** modes
  - Configurable parameters: prompt, seed, denoising strength, resize mode, and portrait enhancers
  - Upload an initial image for img2img mode
  - View and download generated images and metadata
  - Send generated images directly to interrogation or img2img workflows

- **Image Interrogation**
  - Analyze images using **Standard** and **Structured** interrogation endpoints
  - Get detailed tag scores and captions for uploaded/generated images

- **API Configuration**
  - Easily set the API base URL to point to local or remote Pi Axera SD service instances

---

## Interface Examples

### Image Generation (txt2img & img2img)

![Image Generation Example](./reference_repo_docs/screenshot_img2img.png)

*Example: Generating an image from a prompt and modifying an initial image using img2img mode. Metadata and workflow actions are shown below the generated image.*

### Image Interrogation

![Interrogation Example](./reference_repo_docs/screenshot_interrogate.png)

*Example: Interrogating a generated image to obtain tags, scores, and captions using the Standard interrogation mode.*

---

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

Commit message:

Add Pi Axera SD Interactive system service documentation and installation scripts.

README.md, after:


# Pi Axera SD Interactive Explorer

Interactive web interface for exploring and interacting with the Pi Axera Stable Diffusion API.

## Prerequisites

This application requires a running instance of the Pi Axera SD Image Generator Service to function. The service provides the backend API for image generation and interrogation.

- **Service Repository**: [https://github.com/gregm123456/sd1.5-lcm.axera](https://github.com/gregm123456/sd1.5-lcm.axera)
- **Service Documentation**: [pi_axera_sd_service](https://github.com/gregm123456/sd1.5-lcm.axera/tree/master/pi_axera_sd_service)

Please follow the installation and setup instructions in the service's README to deploy the service on compatible hardware (e.g., Raspberry Pi with Axera AX650N). The service typically runs on port 5000.

Once the service is running, configure the API Base URL in the application (default: `http://m5:5000` for a device named 'm5').

## Setup

1. **Create the virtual environment (if it doesn't exist):**
   ```bash
   python -m venv .venv
   ```

2. **Activate the virtual environment:**
   ```bash
   source .venv/bin/activate
   ```

3. **Install dependencies:**
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Run the application:**
   ```bash
   python app.py
   ```

5. **Open the provided URL** (usually `http://127.0.0.1:7860`) in your browser.

## Optional System Service Setup

For running the application as a system service on Raspberry Pi or other Linux systems, see the [System Service Setup](pi_system_service/README.md) documentation.

---

## Features

- **Image Generation**
  - Supports both **txt2img** and **img2img** modes
  - Configurable parameters: prompt, seed, denoising strength, resize mode, and portrait enhancers
  - Upload an initial image for img2img mode
  - View and download generated images and metadata
  - Send generated images directly to interrogation or img2img workflows

- **Image Interrogation**
  - Analyze images using **Standard** and **Structured** interrogation endpoints
  - Get detailed tag scores and captions for uploaded/generated images

- **API Configuration**
  - Easily set the API base URL to point to local or remote Pi Axera SD service instances

---

## Interface Examples

### Image Generation (txt2img & img2img)

![Image Generation Example](./reference_repo_docs/screenshot_img2img.png)

*Example: Generating an image from a prompt and modifying an initial image using img2img mode. Metadata and workflow actions are shown below the generated image.*

### Image Interrogation

![Interrogation Example](./reference_repo_docs/screenshot_interrogate.png)

*Example: Interrogating a generated image to obtain tags, scores, and captions using the Standard interrogation mode.*

---

## License

See [LICENSE](LICENSE).
